# Relationship-between-Screen-time-and-Academic-Success
This data analysis focuses on whether there is a relationship between engineering students' non-academic screen time and their academic performance. We will analyze the relationship between engineering students' GPAs and their average daily non-academic screen time. Using MATLAB and Python, we were able to visualize the data we received from our engineering classmates. The summary of the data also includes the mean, standard deviation, variance, minimum, maximum, and median of the GPAs received. The population mean was also estimated using the collected data. This was done using the sample data and a confidence interval of 95%, which means that we are 95% confident that the true population mean falls within this interval. The sample mean and sample variance was also calculated in this part to estimate the population variance and mean. We used n-1 in the variance formula so we would not get a biased estimate as using n would give us a biased estimate that underestimates the variance. It was important to visualize and understand the data received by showing the relationship between a student's average daily screen time and their GPA. As it makes it easy to view the relationship between GPA and average screen time. The same thing was also done for the relationship between GPA and the most active time on the phone. To test our hypothesis, we used a T-test as our sample size is not too large, and the population variance is unknown. The test was used to compare the GPAs of students whose average daily screen time was less than 6 hours versus those whose average daily screen time was more than 6 hours. Our null hypothesis was that there was no difference between the two groups. The group means are similar if the t-statistic is close to zero. The value of -0.2826 is close to zero; therefore, the two groups' mean are very similar. A p-value less than 0.05 is considered significant, meaning there is enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis. Our p-value was 0.7792, more than 0.05, so we do not have enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis. Based on the data we collected, we can conclude that there is no significant evidence that engineering students' screen time affects their GPA. This conclusion is supported by the T-test conducted on the data and the data visualization using box plots. Further research with a larger sample size would be beneficial to come to more definitive conclusions.




